Graded Quiz: Test your Project understanding

1.Question 1
Gray-scale images consist of 3 channels while colored images consist of 1 channel?
True 
ANS -Flase



2.Question 2
Which of the following indicates that the machine learning model is significantly underfitting?


When training accuracy is 90% and validation accuracy is 85%


ANS - When training accuracy is 70% and validation accuracy is 55%


When training accuracy is 98% and validation accuracy is 80%


When training accuracy is 85% and validation accuracy is 75%


3.Question 3
While training your CNN model, you find that training accuracy is 96% and the validation accuracy is 80%. What could be the reason for this?


Model generalized well because of underfitting


Model generalized well because of overfitting


Model generalized poorly because of underfitting


ANS - Model generalized poorly because of overfitting


4.Question 4
How many images will this code print out?



25


ANS- 50


15


10


5.Question 5
Which does this code do?



Data shuffling, normalization, scaling


Data shuffling, color-scale conversion, normalization


ANS - Data shuffling, gray-scale conversion, normalization


6.Question 6
Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) are information processing models that work by trying to mimic human biological neurons. ANNs can be modeled as follows "output = Ax + b". Which of the following variables are adjustable parameters? (where A is the input, x is the weight and b is the bias)


x and output


A and b


output and A


output and b


ANS - x and b


7.Question 7
You are working on a computer vision application and you need that application to detect faces. You have been tasked to use CNN for the model. Why are CNN preferred for task related to images?


CNNs are able to update their weights much better compared to other networks.


CNNs are able to remember the relationship between various input images


ANS"-CNNs are able to extract high level features


CNNs has a built-in generalization capability


8.Question 8
You trained an artificial neural network to perform multi-class classification. After model training and validation, you find that your model is overfitting the training data. What changes can you make to the model architecture to avoid overfitting?


Use early stopping


Use more dataset


Add an additional dense layer


ANS :- Add dropout



9.Question 9
For binary classification problems, we use the following command to compile the model:



True


ANS:-False

10.Question 10
You are training a CNN image classifier and you have initially observed around 40th epoch that the model's validation score and training accuracy were both 94%. As the training continued, at 90th epoch, the training accuracy went up to 98% and validation score went down to 87%. What is the problem here and how can it be rectified effectively?


CNN is underfiiting and we should use early stopping

CNN is underfitting and we should shuffle the data


ANS:-CNN is overfitting and we should use early stopping


CNN is overfitting and we should shuffle the data
